Adds Initial Set of Documents (#3)
ArlingtonCouncilOfPTAs/tech-guide: tax-documents.md

# Tax Documents Needed for Tech Setup
You will need three kinds of tax documents to get setup in most systems.

## IRS Determination Letter
Your PTA Treasurer and/or Secretary should have a copy of the [IRS determination letter](./docs/irs-det-txptacongress.pdf).  This is a letter from the IRS containing the PTA Texas Congress group exemption #1889.  The packet should contain two documents in total, and is proof that your PTA is a non-profit organization.

> 1. A letter from the IRS which contains text substancially similar to: "Your organization is exempt under section 501 (c)(3) of the Code because it is included in a group ruling issued to PTA Texas Congress, located in Austin, TX."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A letter from the IRS which contains text substantially similar to: "Your organization is exempt under section 501 (c)(3) of the Code because it is included in a group ruling issued to PTA Texas Congress, located in Austin, TX."
```

2. A letter from the PTA Texas Congress containing your local PTAs EIN, recognizing you as a PTA in good standing.

(Some packets also include a certificate of charter, but this is not required.)

The EIN contained on the third page is a sub-EIN of PTA Texas Congress for use by your local PTA.  This is the only EIN you should ever use (not the parent EIN listed on the first page).  The official, legal name of your PTA is "PTA Texas Congress," which will be relevent for a few of the guides.

Your Treasurer or Secretary can provide this form to you.

## Texas Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certification
Usually, the IRS Determination Letter is not needed for making purchases in Texas.  More often, the agent of the PTA making a purchase simply has to provide a [Texas Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certification 01-339](https://comptroller.texas.gov/forms/01-339.pdf).

This form requires:

> - The name, address, and phone number of the purchasing organization (which is your PTA)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your PTA's name, address, and phone number as the purchasing organization
```

- The sellers name and address whom you are presenting the certificate to
- A description of what you are purchasing
- The reason why the purchase is tax exempt
- The name, title, and signature of the organization's agent who is making the purchase

> While your PTA's EIN does not have to appear on this document, it is a common misunderstanding that you must provide this number at the time of purchase.  Simply including it in the reason for tax exemption streamlines this process and avoids unnecesesary delay.  For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While your PTA's EIN does not have to appear on this document, it is a common misunderstanding that you must provide this number at the time of purchase.  Simply including it in the reason for tax exemption streamlines this process and avoids unnecessary delay.  For example:
```

> This purchase is exempt because NAME OF YOUR PTA is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization with EIN 12-34566789.

Any authorized agent may make purchases on the PTAs behalf, and it is the purchaser (not the treasurer) who signs this form.  You can fill out one of these forms on your own, as long as you have permission to make purchases on behalf of the PTA.

## W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification
You may be asked to provide a [W-9](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw9.pdf) especially if doing business with an entity which expects to make a [reportable payments](https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/about-form-1099-misc) to your PTA.

To ensure that the form is filled out correctly, please ask your Treasurer to provide you with a filled-out copy of this form.

> [<- back](./README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[<- Go Back](./README.md)
```
